Virtual Assistant Documentation

Overview

This virtual assistant is a simple calculator that allows users to perform basic arithmetic operations, view history, and interact using a GUI built with Tkinter. It also stores operation history in an SQLite database and provides history retrieval using Pandas.

Features

Perform basic arithmetic operations (Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication, Division).

Store operation history in an SQLite database.

View history using Pandas.

User-friendly graphical interface using Tkinter.

Handles errors such as invalid inputs and division by zero.

Technologies Used

Python: Core programming language.

SQLite: Database for storing operation history.

Pandas: Used to retrieve and display stored history.

Tkinter: GUI for user interaction.

Installation

Install Python (if not already installed).

Install required dependencies by running:

pip install pandas

Usage

Run the script:

python virtual_assistant.py

Enter two numbers and select an operation from the dropdown.

Click the Calculate button to perform the operation.

Click Show History to view past calculations.

Click Exit to close the application.

Database Schema

The SQLite database (history.db) contains a table named history with the following columns:

id (INTEGER PRIMARY KEY): Unique identifier for each record.

operation (TEXT): The operation performed (e.g., 5 add 3).

result (TEXT): The result of the operation.

Error Handling

Invalid Input: Displays an error if non-numeric values are entered.

Division by Zero: Returns an error message instead of crashing.

Database Errors: Ensures safe database operations with proper commits and closures.

Future Enhancements

Implement voice commands for hands-free operations.

Add more complex mathematical functions.

Export history as a CSV file.

Conclusion

This virtual assistant provides a simple and effective way to perform calculations while keeping track of history. The use of Tkinter enhances user interaction, while SQLite and Pandas ensure data persistence and retrieval.

For further improvements, contributions are welcome!

